This is.
Dene Grigar: Great Is there going to be a little blurb before this.
Stephanie Strickland: It doesn't seem to yeah.
Dene Grigar: Alright let's go ahead and get started, welcome to the tour of the next I andina grigore and I was overseeing this project, since 2018 but starting this past January.
Dene Grigar: The electronic literature lab in conjunction with the creative media and digital culture program in Washington State University.
Dene Grigar: has moved into a version two of this repository project and rebranded it as the next and presenting today.
Dene Grigar: Is a representative representative group of students now graduates of the 39 who produce this project so i'm not going to talk further about this i'm gonna turn it right over to Kathleen Zeller and the wonderful team of the next.
Kathleen Zoller: Thank you Danny Hello everyone, today we are going to be offering you a virtual tour of the next a multimedia museum library and preservation space that provides long term accessibility to.
Kathleen Zoller: Born digital literary artwork my name is Kathleen zoeller I am the project manager of this project.
Kathleen Zoller: This project has just undergone phase three of development which saw the realization of assets for the next and the projects launch.
Kathleen Zoller: This was accomplished by five specialized teams of 39 graduating seniors at Washington State University Vancouver overseen by staff and faculty at the electronic literature lab.
Kathleen Zoller: The next will continue to grow as new donations are made to the yellow and metadata is further refined.
Kathleen Zoller: We are currently adding several more collections of electronic literature from Reiner Strasser Tina Scott Allen sondheim blue orange and the vectors journal.
Kathleen Zoller: Our goal is to broaden the diversity of works held within the next to offer an international scope and enhanced inclusive it.
Kathleen Zoller: As of now, we are still refining our inventory of metadata and images for the collections presently held in the next but we aim to have these improvements in on July 17.
Kathleen Zoller: In addition to the 3D assets, you will be seeing in this presentation, but before we begin our virtual tour, I would like to show you our video trailer of the next I will then briefly hand it off to Joel clap who will share a few words about the goals and process behind it.
well.
Joel Clapp: hi my name is Joel clap and I worked in the video team to help create much the video content you'll be seeing in the next.
Joel Clapp: Those of us working on the video team for the next we're confronted with the dilemma, how do you explain the next we wanted to encapsulate the spirit of the project, while explaining what makes the next so special.
Joel Clapp: The focus the trailer, of course, is the question, what is the next question that new users were suddenly have on their mind when they enter this space.
Joel Clapp: We call back to familiar institutions such as libraries, museums and preservation spaces well pointing to possibilities of the future holds.
Joel Clapp: This isn't just a space to how's the history of electronic literature, but also to protect its future.
Joel Clapp: On the trailer team we collected media and assets gathered and created from other teams working on the project.
Joel Clapp: To help highlight some of the things new audiences will explore, in the space.
Joel Clapp: In addition to the work themselves, we have thousands of pictures and screenshots to document those works, as well as animated gifts for works that may not be as easily accessible for the public to benefit from them.
Joel Clapp: We even reconstructed physical objects and brought them into this virtual space to make the artifacts more accessible, in the form of 3D models.
Joel Clapp: Finally, we work with the style guide of the brand to make sure the assets convey a unified and professional message best explained by this quote from the curatorial statement.
Joel Clapp: envisioned as a combination museum library and preservation space, the next maintains and make the archives accessible.
Joel Clapp: For the next generation and response, the growing need for open access travel free cultural and research experiences for today's public and scholars now i'd like to pass it back to Kathleen to start our tour of the next.
Kathleen Zoller: Thank you Joel without further ado, I will kick off our virtual tour of the next.
Kathleen Zoller: So what you see here is the welcome space, you will immediately notice the striking moving imagery developed by our design team, the goal of our welcome spaces acute visitors that this is much more than a flat.
Kathleen Zoller: or a static website is a deep immersive and tangible experience we have adopted a particular vocabulary to reflect this one referencing the next.
Kathleen Zoller: For instance, you'll notice that we refer to areas and the next as spaces and not pages.
Kathleen Zoller: you'll also notice that we avoid any terms that would otherwise connect the next to physical reality so she's calling this area a welcome space, rather than a home space.
Kathleen Zoller: You will detect the same across all of the assets that we developed.
Kathleen Zoller: The graphics us here in the top serve to update visitors on the yellows and l's latest projects, these will be updated regularly as new projects are announced and below this, we have the trailer video, you have just seen that further contextualize this the next two visitors.
Kathleen Zoller: From here visitors can browse works within the next by category, the next can also be navigated from the menu in the upper corner here.
Kathleen Zoller: Visitors have the ability to view works of electronic literature by six different categories, for instance, are donated journals of Isla can be viewed in the online journals category space.
Kathleen Zoller: And as you can see these icons are not static images, rather they move when they are touched encouraging visitors to interact with and explore the space.
Kathleen Zoller: will forgive me i'm experiencing some Internet issues on my end.
Kathleen Zoller: Probably because I have zoom open at the same time that does happen.
Kathleen Zoller: Here we go alright awesome.
Kathleen Zoller: Alright, we followed vince deacons principles of immersion when developing these assets for the space, by making them participatory interactive and experiential and other words, these elements invite interaction that immerses the user and further deepens the next as a virtual space.
Kathleen Zoller: At the very bottom of the welcome space is an interactive visualization depicting the connections between artists and their works contained within the electronic literature collection Volume one.
Kathleen Zoller: When I click on a red note you'll notice that the artists name appears, followed by the grade nodes, which are all the works that they have inside of vlc one.
Kathleen Zoller: Such visualization serve to illustrate works contained within the next to unveil patterns and insights regarding our donated collections and that wraps up the wonderful content for our welcome space i'll now hand it off to Sarah who has shared the underlying data model with us.
Sarah West: Thank you Kathleen Hello i'm Sarah and I was part of the next web development and database team our team coded and five programming languages to create 11 unique html spaces and over 3300 dynamic spaces populated with php.
Sarah West: Additionally, our team worked with the electronic literature lab to design and develop a scalable database for the next list included, creating a Meta Meta data schema that became the blueprint for building out our database.
Sarah West: We have to consider the metadata that we would be storing the fields, they were to be classified in in the database, as well as the data types and link limits for each field.
Sarah West: This database holds all the dynamic information fed into the website, then we access with php.
Sarah West: And our katia is going to talk more about that metadata.
Katya Farinsky: Hello everyone, my name is katia for in ski and i'm the team's copy editor in addition with working with each of our production teams, I also had the pleasure of working directly with Dini to edit copy for each of the spaces, we will visit today.
Katya Farinsky: we've combined mods and sell taxonomy to create a new extensive metadata schema called elms for organizing information so that everything is accessible and final within the next.
Katya Farinsky: we've also worked hard to build out some of the metadata that was missing in the first version of the repository in addition to adding alt tags that will correspond with search terms people type into browsers like Google.
Katya Farinsky: or Google chrome.
Katya Farinsky: And they will be ranked highly on search engine results page, so that people can find the next.
Katya Farinsky: Like other aspects of the next we have our creation and building of metadata was ongoing and will constantly evolve and expand as we continue to build out our metadata over the summer.
Katya Farinsky: In order to make the next more accessible for individuals with disabilities.
Katya Farinsky: We are specifically extending mods to address areas of description that are helpful for visitors with disabilities.
Katya Farinsky: And collaborating with experts in disability justice to fine tune and test the descriptions of the requirements related to disabled visitors, by doing so.
Katya Farinsky: We hope that visitors will better understand the computer software and peripheral specifications of the works that they wish to access.
Katya Farinsky: Equally important visitors with disabilities will know the physical requirements associated with accessing a work so that they can prepare for the experience through accessibility tools or other methods.
Katya Farinsky: In addition to creating elms the combination of our data model elms and sell taxonomy have created a robust slate of search options for the next.
Katya Farinsky: When users type in search terms on our search space or create complex advanced search queries on that space we can pull from our database and have all of the search results appear underneath that initial search area.
Kathleen Zoller: I want to apologize for my Internet issues that are happening right now katya thanks for holding it up i'm open now so let's keep going.
Katya Farinsky: Kathleen so both Kathleen and I are really excited to show you a small sample of the set searches, that you can complete in the next, so our first option is that we can search for works created by a single author, for example, stephanie strickland.
Katya Farinsky: By taping an artist last name into the box, we can see everything that stephanie has personally donated to the next, for her individual collection, but will also be able to see works donated to the next, that were created by stephanie.
Katya Farinsky: Next, we can search for works by their original publication date, for example, we can search for every work that was published in the year 1997.
Katya Farinsky: By searching, we can see, I do first sampling of everything, published in that year, which is really helpful for scholars, who are looking to target a specific error or date.
Katya Farinsky: Third, we can search for publications, based on their original media format, for example, a floppy disk or a CD Rom this can be helpful when researching multiple editions of a work or also searching for specific software or hardware specifications and research.
Katya Farinsky: Additionally, we can also search the next using the metadata categories that Sarah discussed in our data model, for example, artists, nationality, so we can precisely pinpoint work by authors from specific geographic regions.
Katya Farinsky: I would now like to hand things back over to Sarah to talk about our individual artists and scholars collection area.
Thank you katia.
Sarah West: And then from here, we can go look at the individual collection space Kathleen.
Sarah West: can access it through these fun interactive icons or through the menu.
Sarah West: The individual collections are collections donated from artists and scholars.
Kathleen Zoller: have somebody else take over the.
Kathleen Zoller: Internet side because, having zoom open at the same time for me it's not working Dini is volunteering very eagerly so.
Dene Grigar: No one second.
Dene Grigar: let's just slow in this part of the world, right now, because i'm noticing it slow for me.
Dene Grigar: Greg are you having a better time.
Dene Grigar: Are you there.
Greg Philbrook: Just with my Internet at the moment mm hmm.
Dene Grigar: Mine still loading i'm having a hard time on my part of the city.
Greg Philbrook: Oh gotcha no I could.
Greg Philbrook: I could probably take over if.
Dene Grigar: You give them.
sure.
Barysh Agaliyev: It could be the website itself because i'm also having trouble accessing it can we maybe try the test site.
Greg Philbrook: yeah i've got an idea.
Greg Philbrook: You can you can whip over to the test site, if you want to there's some differences between them that we haven't pushed to the live site yet.
Greg Philbrook: But yeah it's uh i'm having.
Greg Philbrook: Some load times to let me check on something.
Holly Slocum: On my end too so maybe the server.
Greg Philbrook: yeah yeah let's take a look there.
Kathleen Zoller: Well, I do have the test site open if we want to continue going with that that might be better.
Holly Slocum: yeah great idea Kathleen.
Greg Philbrook: give it a shot.
Kathleen Zoller: All right, we'll do.
Kathleen Zoller: Okay, all right, thank you, Sarah.
Sarah West: All right, so from here, we can look at the individual collections, to the individual artist and scholars space.
Sarah West: These artists collections include highlight carousel of curated works and video introductions pretty spread a video team.
Sarah West: And then.
Sarah West: We can look specifically at the Dino arson collection here.
Sarah West: Also, including a image care film, which highlights selected works.
Sarah West: And an introductory video created by the video and promotions team which Joel and i'll talk a little bit more about.
Joel Clapp: Thank you, Sarah our video team interviewed over a dozen artists, so far, and each of them have a collection that's included in the launch of the next.
Joel Clapp: visit us and the next will be welcome to each collection by the artists themselves, making the virtual space warmer and more alive.
Joel Clapp: We spend time researching each of the artists and their works, as well as talking with them before and during the interviews to best broadcast their particular voices that make them so unique.
Joel Clapp: To give them human faces and context of their work, these videos include captions to make the space more welcoming to those that will benefit from them.
Joel Clapp: And you can also view extended interviews, which will be available on the next video sorry vimeo channel and for the benefit of future scholars and artists.
Joel Clapp: For deeper insight gleaned from these interactions that we've had with these artists let's take a look now at the welcome video for the Dino Larson collection.
hello, my name is Dean Larson welcome to my collection at the electronic literature's organization, the next.
What you're seeing our works that I have donated from my personal collection to the next, in the virtual Dana Larsen collection what you're going to see are all of my babies, who have died in their natural environments.
I believe that my work is.
Greg Philbrook: As I explained it to folks text with extra elements that are integral to the work, so if you asked me to print these things out couldn't do it.
would just be like putting a human being smashed flat.
Welcome to the next.
Joel Clapp: Dana Larsen has published over 30 works, ranging from in depth mystery hypertext novels like disappearing ring to poems and short stories like firefly.
Joel Clapp: dina's marble springs is one of the first interactive hypertext poetry collections and it invites readers to meet women have a small Colorado town.
Joel Clapp: That became one of the many ghost towns in the area, she has contributed 24 works in her collection and we tried to capture her energy and enthusiasm next i'd like to show you the introductory video for the end Catherine hales collection.
hello, my name is Kate hales welcome to my collection at electronic literature organizations, the next what you are seeing are works, I have donated for my personal collection to the next, this see works from my personal collection and these include some very early works like the Voyager.
CD Rom versions that have their own paperback format they'll see some early works that I think are not available elsewhere.
And many of these works were gifted to me by the artists themselves who were eager to have an audience for their work and they thought I might be able to help publicize some of their work.
So i'm very, very glad to be able to archive these works in a way, where I know they'll be preserved and made available to other folks welcome to the next.
Joel Clapp: And Katherine heigl system American postmodern literary critic and it's made many contributions to the fields of literature in science, electronic literature and American literature.
Joel Clapp: In the extended interview, you can hear her tell her personal account of how she created the first academic affiliation between the yellow and UCLA back in 2001 now i'd also like to share the introductory video for the Marjorie LUSA Britain collection.
hello, my name is Marjorie cover Lucy frank and I write fiction as empty cleverly welcome to my collection at the electronic literature organizations, the next.
What you are seeing our works that I have donated from my personal collection to the next, first of all, there will be my electronic fiction and that will be too long narrative novel length.
Electronic pieces Libya and Egypt, the Book of going forth by day, some 30 short fiction pieces um some 17 nonfiction web pieces that I did it's a lot of stuff and I think that I can't think of a better place to have it.
Welcome to the next.
Joel Clapp: Marjorie Lisa frank, is a pioneer born digital media and is generously donated over 40 works for electronic literature, to the next.
Joel Clapp: fun fact about Marjorie she writes fiction under the pen name md cover Lee and she credits, the beginning of her illustrious career to writing poetry at age eight for marjorie's video we aim to showcase or warm and charming nature.
Joel Clapp: In addition to the artists videos we've also created welcome videos for several journals and the collection.
Joel Clapp: Each of the journals in the next has their own trailer video similar to the artists videos they will act to welcome audiences into the space of each journal.
Joel Clapp: But they aren't done in the same manner as the interviews each member of our video team was tasked with researching one journal, which we then created motion graphic style videos to convey the essence of each journal, as well as providing information on their publication.
Joel Clapp: i'd like to show you cauldron and nets video.
Joel Clapp: As an example.
Joel Clapp: This was the general video that I did the research for and worked on, with the help of my teammate Maria and we evoke the idea of the mythological magic cauldron.
Joel Clapp: Which captured images from sorry with captured images from the journal emerging from shadows and missed in a dreamlike manner, it pays homage to the mystique and artistic innovation that happened in each volume of this journal i'd also like to show the video we have prepared for beehive.
Joel Clapp: The journal venue for beehive was made and researched by my teammates Eric and eli who captured the energy and the buzz that circulated around the Church.
Joel Clapp: And visiting each of the many works as a cell in a coma the giant beehive and the joyful buzzing music reinforces these themes i'm going to hand it off now to breach to share with you more about the individual works in this collection.
Barysh Agaliyev: Thank you, Joe.
Barysh Agaliyev: And Hello everyone.
Barysh Agaliyev: I am brief, I was on the digital promotions team, you may have seen some of our social media posts that was me and my wonderful teammates.
Barysh Agaliyev: So, as we started building this virtual space we quickly realized that we were going to need new images or the works, we were going to preserve and display.
Barysh Agaliyev: A lot of images, the former repository had blurry images and we wanted the next we have clean images precisely when needed images to serve as thumbnails highlights and galleries.
Barysh Agaliyev: This effort resulted in more than 3000 curated images that aim to grab the attention of visitors and invite them to explore the works themselves.
Barysh Agaliyev: This is a very long process, as we had to explore each and every one of these works ourselves well trying to capture the essence of that particular piece.
Barysh Agaliyev: And, of course, many times we got captivated and mingled within the work, but that was the fun part.
Barysh Agaliyev: The more challenging part was running photoshop with several hundred layers and making sure that each and every layer followed our strict naming Convention.
Barysh Agaliyev: And repeating this process a few times as we kept on moving our files around and updating them, thankfully, we had about a dozen people who devoted their time to make the image gathering process doable and successful.
Barysh Agaliyev: And with that i'll hand it over to Kathy will talk about individual workspaces.
Kathleen Zoller: Thank you very.
Kathleen Zoller: you'll notice that visitors have the ability to view specific works with electronic literature.
Kathleen Zoller: From here we can see the metadata associated with queen bees by carolyn curtain, we can also see that there are images of the work for further context which is especially helpful in cases where the work may not be available on the web.
Kathleen Zoller: Further down, we can view the number of copies available for that work and where to find it in this case queen bees is published in beehive Volume one issue too, and can be accessed via this hyperlink and you'll notice that the work still functions, just as it was intended.
Kathleen Zoller: And it addition to the individual artists and scholars and online journals categories visitors can also view where expire anthologies.
Kathleen Zoller: This presently contains electronic literature collections volumes one, two and three, and we look forward to adding volume for in the future.
Kathleen Zoller: I will not pass it off to Joel to share his process for creating the video trailer for the lcs.
Joel Clapp: Thank you Kathleen.
Joel Clapp: The anthology videos will combine qualities of the artists videos and the journal.
Joel Clapp: videos shot in a documentary style we highlight the insights of individuals involved in the anthologies in a more stylized manner, inspired by the anthologies themselves.
Joel Clapp: For our first video in this section I had the pleasure of interviewing little Flores and editor for the llc volume three, as well as president of the Elf.
Joel Clapp: To get his qualified insights and reflections on the legacy of the anthologies and I tried to capture the feel of the three volumes, with some simple motion graphics to provide additional information for the inquisitive staller.
Joel Clapp: let's take a look now at the video, and I can show you what I mean.
it's a snapshot of the field and the work of recovery of work that become relevant at the moment of.
Compiling that collection.
You know, we don't set out the goal with the goal of creating.
The because the very concept of cameras is a little bit elitist and outdated, however, we are producing works and curating works that we feel are important and then have something to say and they end up being some of the words that are most part, most research most circulated.
Beyond that we want them all to represent represent people's work from a variety of languages countries techniques of technology so in a way.
To take that snapshot of a particular moment and I like Spanish literature really housing, what are the technologies, what are the techniques, what are the visual styles, what are the literary techniques that are being used and.
So it is a testament to the growing of the field, but also the maturing of it.
Joel Clapp: As a living project we elected to have a single video represent all the volumes for the llc which can be built upon in the future, with more additions being published.
Joel Clapp: The volumes of the llc are currently the only anthologies hosted on the next, but we have plenty of space to welcome more anthologies in the future, now pass it back to Kathleen to go over what else you'll find on the llc space.
Kathleen Zoller: Thank you Joel.
Kathleen Zoller: you'll notice that some of our works do include moving gifts, such as many as birds singing other bird songs at the gifts not only serve to capture the aesthetics, of the work but also how a user interacts with it.
Kathleen Zoller: Because a majority of works within the next are moving and highly interactive pieces gifts are an important way to visualize these aspects.
Kathleen Zoller: You know, also see that deviant the possession of Christian shahs another such example of this, which contains animations that play upon interaction.
Kathleen Zoller: You may have seen several animated gifts of works from within the next on our social media channels and now these works and more it can actually be viewed in modern browsers.
Kathleen Zoller: Many of the works such as this one are preserved by our local told me and Andrew Thompson that the electronic literature lab using ruffle which can be used to preserve the functionality of adobe flash pieces, such as leishman.
Kathleen Zoller: We have several other categories that are still in process progress we're still collecting images for our showcases category, which includes turbulence and Voyager.
Kathleen Zoller: And we are currently seeing the preservation of museum of the essential and beyond that which is created an adobe flash.
Kathleen Zoller: The scholarly publications and yellow archives pop categories are also forthcoming which include publications, such as pathfinders and records on physical media associated with the yellow.
Kathleen Zoller: you'll also notice that we have an exhibition space.
Kathleen Zoller: which highlights exhibitions into two categories exhibitions of works that are contained within the next, and then the traveling exhibitions that are put on by individual curators or organizations.
Kathleen Zoller: Here we can see an example of each of these the after flash exhibit features adobe flash works preserved and ruffling conifer that are contained within the next, and then the Trans creation exhibit from Montreal.
Kathleen Zoller: This exhibition space will continue to grow as new exhibitions are added over time, but now I would like to pass it on to katya will talk about the about space with us.
Katya Farinsky: Thank you so much Kathleen, it is my pleasure to introduce you to the about space.
Katya Farinsky: At the top of the about space we have an interactive 3D model.
Katya Farinsky: Of the lady me brooch.
Katya Farinsky: That was handmade by Sarah Smith, for her interactive hypertext work king of space Sarah graciously donated the approach to the elo.
Katya Farinsky: And is beyond excited to see how our 2d and 3D visualizations team have faithfully recreated the brooch as a 3D model for the space.
Katya Farinsky: My favorite part about the approach is that visitors will be able to physically manipulate the model across device types to view every aspect of it as Kathleen is demonstrating now.
Katya Farinsky: This is just one of the many physical items that were brought into the next virtual environment, so the yellows physical archives were more accessible to the public.
Katya Farinsky: There will be a dedicated visualization space for each of the beautiful 3D models and visualizations created for the next, which brings just going to show you a sample of now.
Katya Farinsky: Hello.
Barysh Agaliyev: Let me share my screen.
Barysh Agaliyev: Now we will take a closer look at some of the 3D models you saw in the first video all made by our visualizations seen.
Barysh Agaliyev: These models represent physical media and can be manipulated by users to add a sense of tangibility to the virtual space, they also had a sense of lightness and further deepen the immersion of the next, here we have a list of members on our visualizations team all wonderful people.
Barysh Agaliyev: This is a 3D model of the handmade approach created by Sarah Smith and donate it to yellow for its collection it represents lady from smith's hypertext novel king of space, this is playable on the about space of the next shown by katya just earlier.
Barysh Agaliyev: This is one of the to beach balls used by Richard holton during his live performances of figures, he at fin Horn on acid, we also have some beautiful 3D models of spam cans, which were prominently featured in figure skating company to halt in during his reversals donated to the next.
Barysh Agaliyev: This is a 3D model of the MacIntosh classic released in 1990 menial the early hypertext novels held in the next we're access and computers, like this one, using system software 7.9 plus they also have a model of the MacIntosh bubble, and the MacIntosh G4, also known as the lampshade.
Barysh Agaliyev: here's a 3D model of shell injections original packaging and 3.5 inch floppy disk for patchwork role, published in 1995 by escape systems.
Barysh Agaliyev: Here we have a rare first edition of survival trumps victory garden and its original vinyl folio we have worked in our lab that's kept multiple media formats, and this is one of those works, we have the CD Rom version and the floppy disk version.
Barysh Agaliyev: and
Barysh Agaliyev: Then i'll have to, I think I have to share my screen with sounds real quick sorry I apologize.
Barysh Agaliyev: It should.
Barysh Agaliyev: be really short animation that shows how some of these media have just come together, this will also be added to the next, in our upcoming justin.
Barysh Agaliyev: nice little touch.
Barysh Agaliyev: And now back to you we'll talk about the people involved with the next and our tutorials thickness.
Katya Farinsky: Thank you so much for ease.
Katya Farinsky: As we transition.
Katya Farinsky: back to the about space, I want to point out that each of the images, he will see in this space for.
Katya Farinsky: created by members of our design team to represent the diversity and breadth of the electronic literature organization.
Katya Farinsky: A visionary next generation virtual space, like the next would not exist without its visionary founders.
Katya Farinsky: To visualize and construct this virtual space for over 3300 born digital objects, the project was grouped into four phases.
Katya Farinsky: Collection design, implementation and saturation the collection phase focused on defining the problem.
Katya Farinsky: A site was needed for born digital literary work that could be collected shared and preserved, over time, the design phase centered on redefining the pre presentation of the space to fit the materials collected a shift from an online site to a virtual multimedia space.
Katya Farinsky: Our third phase, the face that we worked on was known as the implementation phase, and this has implemented the conceptual framework to induce virtuality to effectively reflect the collection and creation of all of the elements associated with the spaces, we are showing today.
Katya Farinsky: Finally, the saturation phase will be concerned with extending the metadata to include technological features of the works and addressing disability justice aspects of the user experience with the spaces and collections.
Katya Farinsky: This is the face that we've been discussing throughout our presentation that we are currently in now.
Katya Farinsky: This past spring our cohort of 39 graduating seniors embarked on phase three of development.
Katya Farinsky: The electronic literature lab at wc Vancouver provided administrative support and oversaw all aspects of the project as our five production teams created literal thousands of assets for the next.
Katya Farinsky: As you can see in our people space, we have the founders of the next the production management and oversight staff listed in the electronic literature lab.
Katya Farinsky: Our generous board of directors who graciously allowed us to work on this project and then also the name of every single senior from Washington State University Vancouver who has contributed to phase one, two and three of this project.
Katya Farinsky: Before continuing our tour, I want to briefly touch on the next curatorial statement.
Katya Farinsky: Well, I don't have time to read the full statement to you today, I want to direct your attention to the opening paragraph, so the curatorial statement which outline our design problem that we set out to solve through building the next.
Katya Farinsky: Our commitment to designing a robust non proprietary virtual museum library and preservation space drives the next mission to promote inclusive city and diversity at every level, like the elo.
Katya Farinsky: We have designed the next to further the mission of preserving and celebrating born digital work from artists and scholars around the world.
Katya Farinsky: To continue our tour, I would like to hand things over to Sarah.
Sarah West: Thank you, Claudia.
Sarah West: There are multiple ways to donate and contribute to the next.
Sarah West: It thrives on materials funds and Labor provided by patrons who value the cultural history forged by artists and scholars have born digital literature and other forms of experimental media.
Sarah West: Artists and scholars are welcome to donate works from their personal collection to the next, so that they can be preserved and made available to future generations, we have to invite donations of like I see computers and works, published on physical media.
Sarah West: In addition to materials patrons are encouraged to support the next by donating funds for continued development maintenance and work.
Sarah West: patrons can also individually donate to named collections special events and preservation work.
Sarah West: donating Labor as the final way which individuals can donate to the next scholars I needed to them their expertise and born digital editor to assist with researching work refining metadata and writing copy.
Sarah West: We also need content developers to produce videos animation visualizations and images for the next as new entries and collections are donating.
Sarah West: donating Labor can donating Labor contributes to the electronic literature organization and the electronic literature labs mission of preserving born digital media for past, present and future readers.
Sarah West: Our contact page provides additional resources, about the next and the yellow and links to follow us on social media.
Sarah West: actor Kathleen.
Kathleen Zoller: Thank you, Sarah that was wonderful.
Kathleen Zoller: So our research and creative output, has resulted, any multimedia museum library and preservation space for born digital literary artwork.
Kathleen Zoller: And with the virtual elements you've seen today the next goes beyond the limits of a static website.
Kathleen Zoller: It is, as I said, a deep immersive and tangible experience well brick and mortar museums are accessible from a single location, the next is a virtual environment that transcends the bounds of physical space and is widely accessible to the public.
Kathleen Zoller: Now that we've concluded our virtual tour of the next, I would like to touch briefly on what we, the 39 graduates graduated students learned from this project.
Kathleen Zoller: The next was an opportunity for us to experiment with innovative design strategies, using the tools we had learned within the creative media and digital culture program on our campus.
Kathleen Zoller: It allowed us to directly apply our design experience to a real world project prior to graduation and we gained experience working remotely in a team of over 40 people.
Kathleen Zoller: The 39 graduating seniors donated 7000 hours of Labor to the project and the span of four and a half months for phase three alone.
Kathleen Zoller: But this project also emphasized to us the importance of research and creative scholarship.
Kathleen Zoller: Many of us have already landed jobs with the with the next project and our resumes as employees are impressed with the quality and ambition of the project and our contributions.
Kathleen Zoller: These will continue to serve as the foundation of every project we undertake ensuring thoughtful and deliberate design that solve real world problems and innovative ways.
Kathleen Zoller: We have also fallen in love with the artists and the let community, and we are passionate about electronic literature and everything you do affects that shines through the next.
Kathleen Zoller: Thank you for taking the time to tour the next with us, I will now pass it off to jeannie for some closing statements.
Dene Grigar: yeah so every student had to put in at least 150 hours.
Dene Grigar: People like out these students here, these former students put in no less than 200 so it averages out to about I don't know 175 or so per person that doesn't count the Labor in the lab the lab itself holly Greg.
Dene Grigar: Nicholas Susanna Anderson and then me so there's there's probably more like 10,000 hours in this project.
Dene Grigar: So I would just say a few quick things, though the work is ongoing, this is only only Phase four there were starting as of this week.
Dene Grigar: In this phase we're going to be doing, adding more content to the collections that are they're not adding new collections right now.
Dene Grigar: Writing more Meta data more images videos and all of those things to what's currently in the site.
Dene Grigar: So know that starting July 17 though until Sep tember first we're going to be putting in the new collections and that will include Alan sondheim Tina Scott has work.
Dene Grigar: writer strauss's sent me a pile of CDs of his work on the vectors journal, the Museum of the essential will will start to see that you know that arrived.
Dene Grigar: So those kinds of things will start to appear by September 1 we also are looking at expanding the languages of the next so we're looking at getting someone to help us with Spanish, Portuguese, German, French.
Dene Grigar: What are some of the items we mentioned the other day there's seven languages that we're looking at at builder.
Dene Grigar: yeah Arabic is another one, so all the major places where there's communities we're trying to and French isn't yeah French and so all those different languages will be added to that.
Dene Grigar: we're also preserving, so this is not just a museum or library, we got to save this stuff, and so we have already saved 48 works flash for the exhibition.
Dene Grigar: But there are 400 other works currently in the next that need to be saved, so now starting Monday or actually Wednesday because money's a holiday.
Dene Grigar: Wednesday the flesh preservation guys and call them the refer Rangers will start going back into flash going back into the next.
Dene Grigar: and building out more flash work so that it's all on accessible using ruffle conifer working in partnership with the right with rhizome who's actually given us a.
Dene Grigar: server site, so we have a direct server that we're working with instead of going through the large server space at conifer is a built in.
Dene Grigar: So those are some of the things that's moving forward with that also the other side next phase will include.
Dene Grigar: Disability justice issues right now the accessibility is meeting Ada compliance but we're going to put that on steroids and we're working with some folks who specialize in this area.
Dene Grigar: And then, finally, the virtuality and you might have noticed that everything about it even.
Dene Grigar: In the video that Joe showed you Jill showed you at the very beginning, none of the words are flat on the space they either were curled or they move they floated.
Dene Grigar: we're going to continue building out that idea that this is not a website so when you talked about the next to your friends and your colleagues.
Dene Grigar: Please refer to it as a virtual space that's a combination of museum library and preservation space, nothing is a site.
Dene Grigar: So we're going to continue with that message and building it out that direction, I did give a presentation about this to some colleagues in Germany, and he.
Dene Grigar: gave a keynote in Stuttgart last week and I can tell you that everybody there who are all repository repository experts were blown away by this project, so the yellow is.
Dene Grigar: pioneering the notion of what it means to produce something for long term preservation and accessibility i'm working now with the British British Museum.
Dene Grigar: Which is exciting that was just that just happened like yesterday and then also Amazon games it's interested in this as well, so there is a variety of people looking at this model and saying this is interesting, this could be something new.
Dene Grigar: So i'm going to stop talking and i'm going to open this up to questions comments and opposing viewpoints, thank you.
Dene Grigar: Would you like to see one more video.
Dene Grigar: We have one more journal, we have seven journal they.
Kathleen Zoller: have so many.
Dene Grigar: So many what can we just show one more I want to show the one for word circuits.
Kathleen Zoller: Okay.
Dene Grigar: i'll get that pulled out amanda this will give you an idea of another style of what we've done with the with the journal videos.
Kathleen Zoller: For sure yeah well I feel like they all kind of have their own different style because they all have this different sort of tone they're all different journals so it's kind of fun to see all their personalities come out in these videos okay i'll share my screen.
Dene Grigar: Anyway, they're all very.
Dene Grigar: very proud of these folks I want to thank them all personally in front of all of you here in the room, right now, they are marvelous to work with it's been a great Semester and they're all getting jobs, I think Kathy do you have just recently landed a job and they like this project.
Katya Farinsky: Yes, absolutely so I was in talks with several of our lumps were working for a local company in Vancouver Washington called odyssey.
Katya Farinsky: And I literally sent in my application, the Monday going into our finals week and doing our final presentation for the board and graduation.
Katya Farinsky: And over a course of three days after hearing about this project hearing about the work that our students have been doing.
Katya Farinsky: They hired me immediately, so I was one of the many students in our class hired.
Katya Farinsky: At graduation, and I think Dini has betcha this it feels like we're hearing an announcement every few days of someone else's landing a job or.
Katya Farinsky: everyone's having interviews right now so it's really exciting, not only to work with so many living artists and really create amazing things for their collection and their body of work.
Katya Farinsky: But to also be doing something for the elo knowing that our impact is going to be a global impact, you know we're preserving things for everyone for the future, you know and then also on a personal level we're all getting hired by you know, like hot buns.
Dene Grigar: Comments questions.
Kathleen Zoller: holly your son's adorable.
Kathleen Zoller: Ilyas.
Are you.
Dene Grigar: Anything you want to ask.
Dene Grigar: The students, I know zach you're asking about the production like how we did this.
Dene Grigar: i'm Kathleen and holly nine Greg met before the calm before every semester, I know who's going to be in the graduating class like right now I know who's who's going to be in the class in the fall.
Dene Grigar: So I know who's going to be on the capstone project, and when I look at that talent, I try to figure out a project that sits at talent.
Dene Grigar: In going into this that semester with these students, we had 39 students and the talent pool was enormous it was like a embarrassment of riches.
Dene Grigar: So I try to find things that fit the skill set so when I saw I had all those 3D modelers and all those videographers.
Dene Grigar: You know, made perfect sense to have a project that they all work together and put those skills to bear.
Dene Grigar: And so, this project makes sense for that we also a lot of coders that just came out of the database design class to.
Dene Grigar: next semester in the fall I have quite a few students with the same kind of skill sets so we're building we're taking we just got a contract.
Dene Grigar: From the Thomas dish estate to build out the amnesia game that was produced in 1986 and published by EA.
Dene Grigar: So we're going to take that game and rebuild that and then Sarah Smith actually got us that project and the students that are in that project.
Dene Grigar: Are folks that have the skills to do it, so I try to customize it going back to these students with 39 of them Kathleen and I and holly and Greg.
Dene Grigar: met to organize them into teams, the Faculty including will we spend here with us today that those teams, for us, giving us feedback on team leadership.
Dene Grigar: You know, telling us, who should be leaders who's got the skills to do certain activities, then we let the students know what teams are on they get to weigh in on what they want to do.
Dene Grigar: And if it fits their interest and everything comes together that's the teams and then in the fall we hit the ground running.
Dene Grigar: So starting that first day of school damn we started working on the project, the design the Web team began building out the templates.
Dene Grigar: And the design team began working on the brand book developing the palette the type faces the system basic styles Kathy began working on the kind of naming conventions that we were working on that, even before the class started so we'd all the naming conventions kind of laid out.
Dene Grigar: And then you know they're on and so forth, and then we worked in slack base camp and zoom so know that all this was done remotely 39 students and six.
Dene Grigar: staff members working at a distance to build this site in four and a half months I feel like the students just did a marvelous job and gave us a foundation on which to work, and so the workflow was lovely it just worked really well.
Marjorie Luesebrink: Danny now, can I just I just want to say because i've said this before, but I need to say it again, this is an amazing project and and the.
Marjorie Luesebrink: The the four months that you have put this together and and pulled it so beautifully and nicely into a model to build from.
Marjorie Luesebrink: The end the work of the students and they're really, really impressive comprehension of what they're doing and their ability to to explain it and and and give the rationale for what they did all of it is is really exceptional wonderful job.
Dene Grigar: They definitely get immersed in electronic literature.
Dene Grigar: yeah they did fall in love with it, I mean they're here.
Dene Grigar: They wanted to be there and there's 10 so just to let you know there's i've retained, many of them to stay in the lab and work with me so Kathleen.
Dene Grigar: well thought to get Kathy has got a job so she's gone, but Kathleen breached and Joel and Sarah are currently with me sarah's got to interview on Wednesday.
Dene Grigar: And Kathleen on Tuesday so i'll be losing a lot of these people and very she's up for a position so but i'm retaining about 10 of them Richard Richard snyder is a PhD candidate.
Dene Grigar: Here in our campus and he is working with me on all the metadata so I get him for one more year before he gets his PhD finished, but you know we've got a nice team that were used that we're utilizing to continue building this out so.
Deena LArsen: I did want to say with that as well what's so wonderful about this is you're creating the passion you're creating the hypertext attics and I think your students.
Deena LArsen: are going to have a life long love of digital literature of electronic literature and they're going to infuse that so thank you for.
Deena LArsen: Creating this love and you've got the space where they can explore, I mean it would take a lifetime to explore everything that's in the next already so thank you so much.
Dene Grigar: One day they're going to be talking to their grandkids and they're going to say I interview Dana Larsen I interview Margie with some break I met stephanie strickland.
Dene Grigar: Because I really believe in my heart, you guys all department pioneers you're the dirty steins that Scott Fitzgerald Ernest hemingway's the jr Barnes of our generation.
Dene Grigar: And in sometime in the future, people are going to start to go back and like, but this morning that wonderful presentation that Jim Pinto gave about the company serve you know stuff that she's collecting someone's going to go back one day and say oh my God and we've got the site.
Dene Grigar: it's all here and so that's what didn't happen to June and bought a lot of June Barnes work and economics work, a lot of that was lost.
Dene Grigar: And so now we're working really hard not to lose your voices I want Richard hilton's work to survive and want john mcdaid will lawyers to survive, you are the pioneers of our generation so.
Dene Grigar: Thank you Danny yeah.
Kathleen Zoller: I believe there's a raised hand in our audience.
lease.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: I just want say one thing, and I have one question, but what I wanted to say is that i'm just doing this for all of you for the work you did, because it was I can imagine that it was.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Enormous adventure working with Dini, and when you are saying that you wanted to create a space, I think it was, as was said something that she created so.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: i'm really, really happy with your wonderful adventure and I want to say, congratulations to all of you and to jeannie who, for me, was always the person who is a kind of.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: embed inspiration and you are so happy guys that you could do this work with her.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: And this work will really be with all of us for yes and for the whole future so it's really amazing and thank you for marching in as a whole, yellow community, and not only yellow community.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: So this is something I think, important and the question I have is something that I was thinking today, looking at the movies, and you shown and listening to you and it's because of the project that Alice Bailey did when she tried to.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: reconstruct flash walks in vr and it is also because of my conversation with matt freeman who is working in field of.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: advertisement our preparing people to work with.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: New technologies like.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: Like vr or a are and to use them to promote new media staff new media work, so I was thinking, if you have consider preparing, not the vr space of next but maybe some promotional.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: movies, just to fill more the space, and when I saw this brush in 3D I thought that maybe just kind of introduction to the collections made in vr could be just.
Agnieszka Przybyszewska: very nice experiment and as freeman said it's it really works with people who are afraid of technology to show them that it's not not so difficult and we are walks very good in this field, so that is my question, but the most important thing congratulation to all of you.
Dene Grigar: Thank you, we love the are.
Dene Grigar: We have a vr lab set up thanks to Greg so that's not something we can't to do.
Dene Grigar: So that's a great idea, and thank you for suggesting that we want to very badly to capture the virtual illness, I mean so many of us cut our teeth, I know john and Margie and deena.
Dene Grigar: cut our teeth in the virtual worlds of movies and muds and you know back in the early 90s, you know so it's always been part of our.
Dene Grigar: sensibility and then how to express that in a in a 2d space of a web in a computer monitor you know that's the that's the hard part right.
Dene Grigar: And so yeah it'd be lovely to turn this into a 3D experience absolutely and I think that is a future, I think there is that in the future as vr becomes more mainstream.
Dene Grigar: So.
Dene Grigar: holodeck next the next holodeck.
Kathleen Zoller: i'm excited for that.
Dene Grigar: I would love to save a hypertext hotel absolutely dina i've talked to Bobby arellano who has created vr he's created vr version of it so go check out his site.
Dene Grigar: Ian rotten coover and a bunch of other folks so it does exist, but it doesn't exist in a space right now that's.
Dene Grigar: widely accessible.
So.
Dene Grigar: we're trying to we're also working with Michael Joyce and carolyn guyer to get their works adjusted so there, hopefully, will be here in September 1 and guyer was a big.
Dene Grigar: component, a big contributor to the hypertext hotel.
Dene Grigar: Thank you holly for putting that link in there, I will say that nothing comes from nothing and I can't do anything without other people.
Dene Grigar: And if Greg feel broke ever left me I would I would quit my job without batting an eye because he is my right hand and holly who runs the lab for me.
Dene Grigar: and his was a student both of them were former students is my left hand and then i've got john Barber my husband pushing me he's behind me pushing me so without those three people I couldn't stand up.
Dene Grigar: honestly.
Dene Grigar: Any other comments.
Dene Grigar: Please look at the site.
Dene Grigar: continue looking at it we're going to be ingesting weekly new content for the current collections and check back with us after July 17 for other new things.
Dene Grigar: If you want to donate to it goes to the donate page their stuff their.
Dene Grigar: materials physical help funds any of those things are useful computers for the lab because we are collecting and what i'm looking for currently is a PC that runs a five and a quarter inch floppy disk if you've got one of those send it my way I need that badly for projects.
Dene Grigar: And thank you dina July 13 is a second Tuesday salon so please make sure you attend that this is the last session of the yellow Conference, and I want us to go on record, saying that.
Dene Grigar: i'm so glad you all attended the conference and joined us this year in this virtual online space.
Dene Grigar: Next year we're looking at potentially a physical, as well as a virtual environment we're still deliberating over that and but know that yellow is in its 21st year currently and we'll be moving towards 22nd.
Dene Grigar: margin loosen brink has been with it from the very beginning, I joined the 2006 and Richard you've been with them, since.
Dene Grigar: The early late 1990s to so a lot of us putting john mcdavid is 10 act from the early 90s late at so there's a lot of pioneers in this room, right now, so thank you everybody.
Dene Grigar: Dana Larsen How long have you been with it forever.
Dene Grigar: At snyder yeah.
Deena LArsen: i've been around for quite some time and mercury and I have to get together on the history of yellow but yes and cyber mountain 1999 and all of that history sometime over the way cool if any of your students are interested to do a zoom remembrance, that would be amazing.
Marjorie Luesebrink: That would be great OK, I can hear.
Dene Grigar: Can you hear me we're going to do for that we're not doing doing things for the Flash exhibition because there were so many exhibitions that so many launches this week.
Dene Grigar: But in July or August we're going to have a before it ends on August 1 we're going to have a flash day symposium we're going to teach people how to say flash.
Dene Grigar: and talk about flash and have some of the artists come and talk so we're going to have more of a day event like the woman he lit event like the toaster flash generation.
Dene Grigar: So much more substantial than just do a launch on not into parties and more into symposiums so flashdance absolutely and i've got the clothes for two I promise.
Dene Grigar: All right, everybody love you all thank you so much for being here and former students will you stick around for a minute, so we can chat and then Kathy you and I have to meet about stuff again jam.
Marjorie Luesebrink: Thank you, daily Thank you students thank all of you.
Dene Grigar: Thank you all for your support.
Kathleen Zoller: Thank you.
Joel Clapp: Thank you so much for coming.
Katie Schaag: Thank you, this is fabulous Thank you so much i'm excited for.
Katie Schaag: You.
Dene Grigar: If you want to talk about structure and stuff in the future i'm happy to chat with you more about it.
Zach Whalen (He|Him): yeah thanks for showing up to work, it was amazing I want to say thank.
Dene Grigar: You on the book a PDF project.
Zach Whalen (He|Him): Oh yeah yeah.
Zach Whalen (He|Him): It was a fun thing to get started so.
Deena LArsen: When you students have made my life, and thank you so much.
Oh.
Zach Whalen (He|Him): yeah those ones there's no particular took that on and we are we organized and got rid of those annoying tags at the top, so it looks.
Deena LArsen: Well, if you ever come to Denver, let me know and i'll host you no problem.
Deena LArsen: we'll see.
Dene Grigar: And track person, I think we have a few minutes we can be in here can we please stay and chat before we close up.
Dene Grigar: Okay, thank you all right, everybody good job.
Greg Philbrook: Should we.
Greg Philbrook: Stop.